
The Havel in the Gutter is a man in a pot.
This is probably my last comment on this so I’m going to give my entire story. I know many will disagree.
The whole world started at the advent of fire where the First Flame was born and the four lord souls founded. 
The lords lived happy lives, but the fire began to fade and ruin was upon them. 
The undead are a result of the unbalance of light and dark, like yin and yang every human is part light and part dark, souls are the light and humanity is the dark. 
When First Flame fades souls lose their power and in their place humanity takes over, humanity is hard to control it is wild and loses its form. 
Now if a being has over more souls than humanity they take the form of lords, but if you have more humanity than souls you take the form of an undead. 
If your souls and humanity are in balance then you are human, but if you have neither then you become a hollow, a mindless husk that craves both souls and humanity. 
Since undead only have their humanity and humanity is wild it is easiest to become hollow once you are undead.
Now if undead are soul starved, then they are hungry for souls and travel to the birth place of souls the sacred land of Lordran, where the first flame originated. 
This is the strange calling of undead to this land, they do not know why they came but they did. 
This goes for Drangleic too, undead unknowingly travel to Drangleic because it is where the creation of souls began, it is Lordran, it is the birth place of the first flame and where four great souls originated. 
Straid says, “Many kingdoms rose and fell on this tract of earth; mine was by no means the first.” 
This means that multiple kingdoms were here on this land, each one started by the rekindling of the First Flame and each kingdom crumbled into dust of history when the flame dies. 
Why are kingdoms built on this land because it is where the First Flame originated, and I find it hard to believe that you can move the First Flame, because we see from Izalith that that if you mess with the Flame you are going to get burned.
The cat says “Why not trot along to the castle? And meet the King. Long ago, He smelled just like you. Not so much anymore, though. He's quite rancid by now.” 
This tells that Vendrict once had to go through the same thing we did in both games, he came to this land in search for souls, 
and most likely as an undead he killed its former inhabitants along with the four great ones and erected his great kingdom upon their graves, 
but when the curse came true and the flame began to fade once again, he cowered and refused to sacrifice himself, becoming a Dark Lord, entering a Dark Age. 
It became our duty to follow his path and right his wrong, to save the world once more or we could commit his folly once again prolonging Age of Dark and to await a new hero.

Now what happened between the time that he rose to power and when the curse broke out is a long story.
 I’m going to sum it up, he destroyed the previous kingdoms such as Shulva, Olaphis, Iron kingdom, and even remnants of Lordran such as the black knights. 
Black Knight weapon description says “Even after their flesh was charred by flame, they remained as strong as ever, and stood watch, challenging visitors to their land.” 
The black knights were here this was Lordran at some point in time. 
Vendrict ruled over his kingdom peacefully, until a woman came from across the seas she was Nashandra, now Nashandra was not a normal being she is the daughter of Manus along with Elena, Nadalia, and the unknown ivory queen. 
Each one was sent to a different king to eventually lead them into ruin. 
Nashandra told Venidrict of a threat across the seas, the giants, now Venidrict being the new King over the great land, goes to the land of the giants and pillages a certain trophy. 
Upon Venidricts return the golems emerged they helped build his kingdom. Nashandra being the being of Lust, she wants power over everything else, and with the new king under her control she now basically rules Drangleic. 
Giants became enraged and assaulted Drangleic, in a sort of surprise attack that shattered Venidricts pride where the giants brutally killed many of his loyal knights. 
I believe that the trophy was the throne of want and I agree now that it definitely was not the kinship. Giants Kinship description, “Each king has his rightful throne. 
And when he sits upon it, he sees what he chooses to see. Or perhaps, it is the throne, which shows the king only what he wants. 
The throne gives the power to create golems, Kinship is the right to sit upon the throne. 
With the curse approaching the giants at siege and Vendrict realizing that his queen is the evil spawn of Manus, he gives up and goes to the crypt to think of his failure. 
Nashandra is infuriated and loses her puppet of power, so she seeks a new one and that happens to be us.

Manus did create humans, but he did not create life. Before the first flame there were just hollows beings that lacked souls and humanity.
When the flame appeared it brought not just the four grand souls but many other souls as well how else could there have been other lordly figures such as Flann, Fina, and Velka. 
There were also smaller souls that were picked up by the remaining hollowish creatures Manus the fourth lord to pick a soul from the fire, 
inherited the Dark Soul, I do believe that Manus was not entirely evil in a selfless act he sacrificed himself to split his soul into millions of fragments and gave them to the hollows. 
Thus a balance between soul and humanity was made. 
But main point here is that before Gwyn inherited his Light Soul or Nito his Death Soul, or Izalith her Life Soul, they were all Hollow beings.

